Add/pusher guide (#1148)
zeit/docs: pages/guides/deploying-pusher-channels-with-zeit-now.mdx

  published: '2019-08-26T19:22:52.039Z',
  authors: ['coetry'],
  url: '/guides/deploying-pusher-channels-with-zeit-now',
  image:
    'https://og-image.now.sh/**Deploy%20Pusher%20Apps**%20%3Cbr%3E%20with%20ZEIT%20Now.png?theme=light&md=1&fontSize=100px&images=https%3A%2F%2Fassets.zeit.co%2Fimage%2Fupload%2Ffront%2Fassets%2Fdesign%2Fnow-black.svg&images=https%3A%2F%2Fpusher-icon.now-examples.now.sh&widths=250&widths=300&heights=250&heights=250',
  editUrl: 'pages/guides/deploying-pusher-channels-with-zeit-now.mdx',
  lastEdited: '2019-08-27T17:11:07.000Z'
}

[Pusher Channels](https://pusher.com/channels) is a service that makes it easy to add real-time data and functionality to web and mobile apps by using [WebSockets](https://socket.io/).

This guide demonstrates how to get started creating and deploying real-time apps with [Channels](https://pusher.com/channels) and [ZEIT Now](/now).

<Note>
  This guide will not be a full code walkthrough, but rather an overview of the
  key pieces. Please refer to the full source code linked at the bottom of the
  guide to see how everything fits together.
</Note>

> ## Step 1: Channels Account Setup

Reviewer: If Channels is the product, should it be:

```suggestion
## Step 1: Pusher Account Setup
```
?

Or 
```suggestion
## Step 1: Pusher Channels Account Setup
```

Reviewer: Especially since the line below says to create an account on Pusher.

> Start by making an account on [Pusher](https://dashboard.pusher.com/accounts/sign_up) and creating a new app by clicking the **Create new app** button on the left sidebar.

Reviewer: Their UI might change, perhaps 
```suggestion
Start by making an account on [Pusher](https://dashboard.pusher.com/accounts/sign_up) and creating a new app by clicking the **Create new app** button.
```

?

Reviewer: This button seems to exist elsewhere also, according to the images, so best not direct the user specifically and confuse them.

<Image
  src={`${
    process.env.ASSETS
  }/guides/deploying-pusher-channels-with-now/create-new-channels-app.png`}

>   width={650}

Reviewer: Increasing the width and height, depending on the image size, allows the image to break free from the bounds of the text content, giving it more room. One of the best methods to utilise this is to do something like:
```js
width={imageWidth/2}
height={imageHeight/2}
```
(Replace `imageHeight/Width` with the image's height and width values.

  height={380}
  oversize
  shadow
/>

> <Caption>Creating a new app from the Channels dashboard.</Caption>

Reviewer: Pusher dashboard or Channels dashboard?

> Next, give your app a `name` and select a `region`. Choose a `region` closest to the majority of your customers to minimize latency.

Reviewer: Any reason name and region are inline code blocks?

<Image
  src={`${
    process.env.ASSETS
  }/guides/deploying-pusher-channels-with-now/name-channels-app.png`}
  width={650}
  height={380}
  oversize
  shadow
/>
<Caption>Adding a <InlineCode>name</InlineCode> and <InlineCode>region</InlineCode> to the app from the Channels dashboard.</Caption>

> From your dashboard, you can scroll down to find all of your Channels apps. Click on the app you just created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From your dashboard, find and click on the Channels app you just created.
```

<Image
  src={`${
    process.env.ASSETS
  }/guides/deploying-pusher-channels-with-now/click-newly-created-channels-app.png`}
  width={650}
  height={380}
  oversize
  shadow
/>
<Caption>Selecting the app from the Channels dashboard.</Caption>

> Finally, click the **App Keys** tab. Copy these values so that you can save them as [Now Secrets](/docs/v2/serverless-functions/env-and-secrets/#adding-secrets) and then provide them to your app as [environment variables](/docs/v2/serverless-functions/env-and-secrets/#providing-environment-variables).

Reviewer: Not exactly final? Could say "Next, ".
```suggestion
Next, click the **App Keys** tab. Copy these values so that you can save them as [Now Secrets](/docs/v2/serverless-functions/env-and-secrets/#adding-secrets) and then provide them to your app as [environment variables](/docs/v2/serverless-functions/env-and-secrets/#providing-environment-variables).
```

<Image
  src={`${
    process.env.ASSETS
  }/guides/deploying-pusher-channels-with-now/channels-app-keys.png`}
  width={650}
  height={380}
  oversize
  shadow
/>
<Caption>Viewing the <b>App Keys</b> from the Channels dashboard.</Caption>

## Step 2: Set Up Your Project

> With your [Pusher Channels](https://pusher.com/channels) account and app set up, create the directory structure.

Reviewer: With this, two paragraphs won't be needed (the one below can be removed).
```suggestion
With your [Pusher Channels](https://pusher.com/channels) account and app set up, the next step is to create you project to deploy, with only a root directory for static files, and an `/api` directory for Serverless Functions.
```

All you need is a root directory where your static files will live, and an `/api` directory with your Serverless Functions.

<Snippet dark text="mkdir -p pusher-channels/api && cd pusher-channels" />
<Caption>Creating and entering into a <InlineCode>/pusher-channels</InlineCode> directory that contains an <InlineCode>/api</InlineCode> folder.</Caption>

> With your directory set up, create an `index.html` file with the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an `index.html` file in your project with the following code:
```

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <script src="https://js.pusher.com/4.4/pusher.min.js"></script>
    <script src="main.js"></script>
  </body>
</html>
```

<Caption>
  Adding <InlineCode>script</InlineCode> tags inside the{' '}
  <InlineCode>body</InlineCode>of your <InlineCode>index.html</InlineCode> file.
</Caption>

> You want to create an instance of a [Pusher Channels client](https://pusher.com/docs/channels/using_channels/client-api-overview) that subscribes and reacts to events on the appropriate channel. You also want to send data to your Serverless Function that will trigger a [push event](https://pusher.com/docs/channels/using_channels/events).

Reviewer: "You want to" sounds very odd to me. Any ideas how to rephrase this? Maybe an action item: 

```suggestion
Create an instance of a [Pusher Channels client](https://pusher.com/docs/channels/using_channels/client-api-overview) that subscribes and reacts to events on the appropriate channel. Additionally, send data to your Serverless Function that will trigger a [push event](https://pusher.com/docs/channels/using_channels/events).
```

Or:
```suggestion
You will need to create an instance of a [Pusher Channels client](https://pusher.com/docs/channels/using_channels/client-api-overview) that subscribes and reacts to events on the appropriate channel. Additionally, you will need to send data to your Serverless Function that will trigger a [push event](https://pusher.com/docs/channels/using_channels/events).
```

Create a `main.js` file where you will initialize a Channels object with your `app-key`, subscribe to the appropriate channel and bind a callback function to react to events within that channel.

```js

> // initialize Channels client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Initialize Channels client
```

let channels = new Pusher('app-key', {
  cluster: 'cluster-region'
})

> // subscribe to the appropriate channel channel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Subscribe to the appropriate channel
```

let channel = channels.subscribe('channel-name')

> // bind a callback function to an event within the channel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Bind a callback function to an event within the subscribed channel
```

channel.bind('event-name', function(data) {

>   // do stuff with data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // Do what you wish with the data from the event
```

})
```

<Caption>
  Initializing a <InlineCode>Channels</InlineCode> client, subscribing to a
  channel, and binding to an event.
</Caption>

> All that's remaining on the client is to create a way to send data to your Serverless Function to trigger push events. Add the snippet below to your `main.js` file to achieve this.

Reviewer: Move the context so the user knows what's happening right away.
```suggestion
All that's remaining on the client is to create a way to send data to your Serverless Function to trigger push events. To achieve this, add the snippet below to your `main.js` file.
```

```js
async function pushData(data) {
  const res = await fetch('/api/channels-event', {
    method: 'POST',
    headers: {
      'Content-Type': 'application/json'
    },
    body: JSON.stringify(data)
  })
  if (!res.ok) {
    console.error('failed to push data')
  }
}
```

<Caption>
  A function in <InlineCode>main.js</InlineCode> to send event data to our{' '}
  <InlineCode>/api</InlineCode> endpoint.
</Caption>

Using [Now CLI](/download), add the following [Now Secrets](https://zeit.co/docs/v2/build-step#using-environment-variables-and-secrets) to your account and expose them as environment variables.

> <Snippet dark text={`now secrets add channels-app-id my-channels-app-id`} />

Reviewer: Not sure this is the easiest way to read the command. Maybe something like:
```suggestion
<Snippet dark text={`now secrets add channels-app-id [Your Channel's app ID]`} />
```
?

<Caption>
  Adding the <InlineCode>channels-app-id</InlineCode> as a Now Secret.
</Caption>

<Snippet dark text={`now secrets add channels-app-secret my-channels-app-secret`} />
<Caption>
  Adding the <InlineCode>channels-app-secret</InlineCode> as a Now Secret.
</Caption>

<Note hint>
  Since the <InlineCode>app-key</InlineCode> and{' '}
  <InlineCode>cluster</InlineCode> are already exposed on the client and are not
  sensitive, you <b>do not need</b> to add them as secrets.
</Note>

> Next, create a minimal `now.json` file with environment variables to expose the secrets you added to your account, replacing `app-key` and `cluster-region` with the values provided by Channels.

Reviewer: This seems more straight-cut to me: 
```suggestion
Next, create a minimal `now.json` file to expose your secrets as environment variables, replacing `app-key` and `cluster-region` with the values provided by Channels.
```

```json
{
  "version": 2,
  "env": {
    "APP_ID": "@channels-app-id",
    "KEY": "app-key",
    "SECRET": "@channels-ap-secret",
    "CLUSTER": "cluster-region"
  }
}
```

<Caption>
  An example <InlineCode>now.json</InlineCode> file that provides the app with
  environment variables.
</Caption>

Add the dependencies for the Serverless Function from inside the `/api` directory.

> <Snippet dark text="cd api && npm i pusher" />

Reviewer: I think we need to start being more verbose with commands. Just so skim readers can appreciate what they're doing.
```suggestion
<Snippet dark text="cd api && npm install pusher" />
```

Reviewer 2: I'm happy go with just `i` here, as it aligns with the [download page](https://zeit.co/download)

<Caption>Entering the <InlineCode>/api</InlineCode> directory and installing the <InlineCode>pusher</InlineCode> dependency.</Caption>

Create a `channels-event.js` file inside the `/api` directory that initializes a new Channels object and receives data from the [`req.body` helper method](https://zeit.co/docs/v2/serverless-functions/supported-languages/#node.js-request-and-response-objects), before invoking [`channels.trigger`](https://github.com/pusher/pusher-http-node#publishing-events) to register the event.

```js
const Channels = require('pusher')

const {
  APP_ID: appId,
  KEY: key,
  SECRET: secret,
  CLUSTER: cluster
} = process.env

const channels = new Channels({
  appId,
  key,
  secret,
  cluster
})

module.exports = (req, res) => {
  const data = req.body
  channels.trigger('event-channel', 'event-name', data)
  res.status(200).end('sent event succesfully')
}
```

<Caption>
  An example <InlineCode>channels-event.js</InlineCode> file inside the{' '}
  <InlineCode>/api</InlineCode> directory.
</Caption>

When `channels.trigger` is called, an event will be broadcast to all subscribed clients.

> ## Step 3: Deplying with ZEIT Now

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 3: Deploying with ZEIT Now
```

> With your [Channels](https://pusher.com/channels) app set up, it is ready to be deployed with [ZEIT Now](/docs/v2).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With your [Channels](https://pusher.com/channels) app set up, it is ready to be deployed with [ZEIT Now](/docs).
```

If you have not yet installed Now, you can do so by installing [Now CLI](/download).

> You are now ready to deploy your app with **just a single command**:

Reviewer: We have sometimes used a colon and sometimes a full-stop at the end of action items like this that code snippets follow. Which do we prefer?

Reviewer: We could combine the above sentence into this also. Referencing Now CLI, but with a link to /download.

<Snippet dark text="now" />
<Caption>Deploying your project with the <InlineCode>now</InlineCode> command.</Caption>

> If you want to deploy your Channels project when you push to a Git repository, you can use either [Now for GitHub](/docs/v2/integrations/now-for-github/) or [Now for GitLab](/docs/v2/integrations/now-for-gitlab/) to have your project automatically deployed on every push, and aliased on push to master.

Reviewer: These are no longer correct links. The following have actionable steps, so let's use that.

```suggestion
If you want to deploy your Channels project when you push to a Git repository, you can use either [Now for GitHub](/github) or [Now for GitLab](/gitlab) to have your project automatically deployed on every push, and aliased on push to master.
```

> For more information, you can find the [source code](https://github.com/zeit/now-examples/tree/master/vanilla-pusher-functions) for this example on GitHub, along with the [live example](https://pusher-whiteboard.now-examples.now.sh/) deployed with ZEIT Now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can fine a full code example of an app made with this guide in [the ZEIT Now examples repository](https://github.com/zeit/now-examples/tree/master/vanilla-pusher-functions) on GitHub, along with the [live example](https://pusher-whiteboard.now-examples.now.sh/) deployed with ZEIT Now.
```
